### Knot DNS server

See the [Knot DNS documentation](https://www.knot-dns.cz/static/documentation/html/configuration.html#query-modules) for details on configuring `dnstap` support. Note that the `dnstap` support in Knot DNS currently requires `protobuf-c` 1.0.0 and the latest git snapshot of `fstrm`.

### Unbound DNS server

Add the following lines to `unbound.conf`:

```
dnstap:
    dnstap-enable: yes
    dnstap-socket-path: "/var/run/unbound/dnstap.sock"
    dnstap-send-identity: yes
    dnstap-send-version: yes
    dnstap-log-resolver-response-messages: yes
    dnstap-log-client-query-messages: yes
```

Start Unbound and it will begin sending `dnstap` payloads to the `AF_UNIX` socket specified by the `dnstap-socket-path` variable. Note that Unbound will attempt to connect to this socket path and will periodically attempt to reconnect if a capture tool is not listening for connections. (This allows the capture tool to receive multiple streams of dnstap data over a single socket.)

You also need a capture tool listening on the other side of the socket.

### _dnstap_ command-line tool

The following command listens on the given `AF_UNIX` socket and decodes messages to `stdout`.

```
dnstap -u /var/run/unbound/dnstap.sock
```

The following command listens on the given `AF_UNIX` socket and saves message payloads to a binary `dnstap`-format log file.

```
dnstap -u /tmp/dnstap.sock -w /tmp/test.dnstap
```

The following command reads a previously saved `dnstap`-format log file and writes [YAML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)-formatted output to `stdout`. This format is extremely verbose.

```
dnstap -y -r test.dnstap
```

The following command reads a previously saved `dnstap`-format log file and writes [YAML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)-formatted output to the given output file. This format is extremely verbose.

```
dnstap -y -r test.dnstap -w test.yaml
```
